## Background and Motivation

- Background literature. Academic research review.
- State of the art survey. Current industry review.
- Clear definition of the problem. How does your project relate to the above? We will be marking the ability of your team to identify a worthwhile and important problem and clearly articulate the scope and challenge of the problem.

### Overview of the problem

NHS guidelines [1] state that adults should limit their sugar intake to 30 grams per day, while children aged 7 to 10 should have no more than 24 grams, and children aged 4 to 6 just 19 grams. In the UK, however, all of these demographics consume more than their recommended daily allowance. According to the National Diet and Nutrition Survey (NDNS) by Public Health England [2], adults consumed on average 57.1 grams per day, and children aged 4 to 10 consumed on average 52.2 grams per day between 2015-2016 – roughly double what they should have. This excess sugar consumption has adverse health effects on the population, as people are at greater risk of obesity, type 2 diabetes, heart disease, and tooth decay [1].

To address this issue, it is crucial to understand why people are consuming excessive amounts of sugar in the first place. [3] highlights that the main sources of sugar in peoples diets are from processed foods such as cereals, confectionary, and non-alcoholic drinks. In part, this is because there is a lack of awareness surrounding the sugar content of these foods. Consider soft drinks as an example. In a survey of over 2000 adults [4], participants were shown images of non-alcoholic drinks and asked to estimate the amount of sugar contained in the quantities shown. On average, the sugar content of fruit juices was overestimated by 48%, whereas that  of carbonated drinks was overestimated by 12%. Although both drinks contain similar levels of sugar, the juice is perceived to be a healthier alternative. Similar results are found in other studies such as [5], where … Nutrition labelling tries to overcome this issue by providing an overview of the macronutrients present in packaged food. As [6] point out, however, the sugar amounts presented on these labels (often in grams) do not translate into common units such as teaspoons, and therefore individuals struggle to visualise how much sugar they are consuming. These studies evidence the public misconceptions about sugar in processed foods, and demonstrate the need to raise awareness.
